now I don't usually start a video with a
shout out to our sponsor but if it
wasn't for dbrand I would not even have
my hands on the Huawei mate XT ultimate
design this phone is so exclusive that
these are going for about
$9,000 on eBay right now the hilarious
part is they don't even make accessories
for it no cases no skins no nothing
because it's China exclusive and I'm
pretty sure they don't let DeBrands SK
into China anymore after all this
they've pulled over the years so we've
got that in common anyway without
further Ado massive shout out dbrand for
getting this phone over to us however
the hell it is you did that unlike a lot
of our recent phone videos there's no
Labs testing or anything it arrived we
jumped through a bunch of freaking
ridiculous Hoops to set up a Huawei
cloud account and I jumped on set I am
so excited to see this thing you will
pay for this that's my garage door why
is my garage door open that's a really
weird anded up thing to have in the
packaging is this from dbrand yes
wow it's freaking huge I have looked at
basically no media coverage of this
thing because I wanted to experience it
in person it's got about the same crease
as I would have expected on like a first
generation folding device but what jumps
out to me is the astonishing thinness
I'm daily driving an iPhone 16 plus
right now this is the thickness of the
iPhone in comparison it's on a whole
other level
I am loving the design too Huawei has
gone from being just like a copycat
brand to this looking absolutely
incredible dude it's basically as thin
as it could possibly be and still have a
SIM tray I've seen concept devices for
like a trifold for example on the
Samsung booth at CES the difference is
that even their concept devices weren't
this thin that is not an IR emitter shut
up it has an IR emitter this is a device
that I look at and I go yeah they
couldn't have fit a headphone jack in
here not this one on the right volume
rocker what appears to be a fingerprint
sensing lock button USBC
Port look at this can you even see the
edges of it how is there room in this
thickness at the edge of this port for
the entire display stack is this leather
it can't be can't be real leather it's
got to be a faux leather but it feels
really good oh oh it's folded oh dang
that is so cool oh buddy in there yeah
that's cool it's like a folded metal oh
oh oh what what else is in the Box oh
important reminder thank you Andy right
I forgot Andy's my cameraman today oh
this this Buddy ain't waterproof I'll
tell you that much don't go where it's
cold don't touch it with anything sharp
don't touch it at all don't fold it if
it's under 5° oh - 5 I can see why they
didn't bring it to the Canadian
Market this is the kind of thing
that feels like they built a concept car
and then they were just like you know
what it we'll make a handful of them you
know like it reminds me of that uh that
Sony OLED from 2008 they were just like
yeah this thing makes absolutely no
sense at this price and size we're going
to do it anyway oh it comes with Huawei
earphones now I know that these are a
thing that's good shut up 88 watt
charging on this thing there's no way
yeah okay this is an 8 Watt wait why
does it come with comes with a car
charger does it come with a reg oh dude
this thing is the whole package regular
charger 66 WS two cables oh it comes
with a case that's great this carbon
fiber oh my God I think this is real
carbon fiber the reason I think it's
real is a it looks real and B they know
there isn't going to be a single
accessory on the market for this so
whatever comes in the box that's the
only possible case that body can get for
it which means if you have the kind of
money to afford a phone like this it
better be a good one how much does this
cost in China it's not even that much
like to be clear $2,800 is a freaking
ton for a phone but you'd spend almost
that much on a top tier iPhone
especially if you pay for Apple Care
which this includes similar service too
it includes four Replacements of the
screen protector in the first two years
and a full out broken screen so it's not
beyond the realm of what people are
spending on phones it's just that uh
that's for 16 gigs of RAM and only 256
gigs of storage I don't even know how
they put a n chip in here let alone 250
you can get it with up to a terabyte of
storage but that's going to cost you
$3,400 $1.2 in display absolute freaking
game changer for on the-go entertainment
3K resolution 92% screen to body ratio I
believe it look how tiny these bezels
are it's like a Samsung Galaxy fold plus
a third phone this thing's crazy like
pretty good anti- glare treatment it's
not perfect but like guys that that's a
studio light you know oh that's cool it
prompts you for the password down in the
bottom right cuz it knows how you're
going to be holding it oh you can tell
it if you're right or left-handed or if
you're holding it shut up shut up Andy
said if you're holding it with your left
hand no way oh they did the work man
I've been using a fed since the first
generation Samsung Galaxy fooled okay
and with those early ones you could
really tell like it was basically stock
Android but like with some tablet tweaks
and you know they didn't really have it
all figured out dude it moves where the
pin prompt is depending where you swipe
that is freaking awesome it's little
touches like that that make all the
difference in the world with a device
like this it comes pre-loaded with a lot
of
garbage that I know is pretty typical
for Chinese devices we've talked about
three
screens
two okay how does it feel in the s that
is smooth the way it transitions you
guys also this is totally a high refresh
rate display what are the compromises
people 90 htz which is good enough
obviously 120 144 is better or whatever
you're extreme gamer but if you're an
extreme gamer you're not buying this
phone now that I finally got it folded
down the whole way dude it's not even
thicker than a bfold from Samsung and
it's a
trifold
wow yeah it's thicker than a traditional
candy bar phone but it's not totally
unreasonable either like again as
someone who used a fold for a long time
it feels pretty good in the hand and not
only that but this is such a usable form
factor man do you remember how small the
front screen was on the first Galaxy
fold like it's tiny I made that work
this would be basically no compromise is
no no I would go like this boom fold
boom I got some movies to watch I want
this thing so bad like so bad does it
even work on Canadian bands come on
wuwei it's not like we jailed your
executive and kicked all your
infrastructure out of our country or
anything I'm going to try it I'm putting
my Sim in it boys you can uninstall
their garbage I can uninstall WWE wallet
maybe blah blah blah yeah sure see you
later okay cool so I don't have to keep
any of that stuff in single window view
you could swipe up and down to either
side to scroll
oh that's a nice usability tweak dude
this is crazy it's so thin it's so light
let's talk about specs we got a Kiren
9010 7 NM chip in
here
10.2
7.9 or 6.4 in display no particular Peak
brightness rating though uh hey you got
the Play Store and everything wait what
the hell is an aurora store no Google
Play services you can't even force it
dang it so wait what am I how am I what
am I supposed to watch on here then we
did find one source that says 1,500 nits
we found another source that said 1,000
nits either way it's pretty flipping
bright this is not like your first
generation folding displays where
they're super dim and basically unusable
outside looks a little yellow it's got a
bit of a red cast compared to the iPhone
but in terms of the brightness and SDR
content
I do not see any disadvantage here I
will say this though the color accuracy
is probably good enough for just about
anybody who's not doing color critical
work on their phone and can your iPhone
do this holy crap no your iPhone can't
do that it looks like even when they're
powering the whole display the overall
brightness is close it might be a little
bit less bright oh man the auto rotate
it's like it's off like it's 90° off
oh it doesn't know what mode I'm in oh
that's uh H that's a that's a downer and
a half you could see it's working fine
in byold mode but then I switch over to
trifold
herp
herp perp the lock button like right
there you're going to accidentally Mash
that constantly but this is like caveman
technology by comparison this is awesome
you got to put all your apps in like a
little like shuffly thing like a peasant
d don't you even have a bigger screen
Apple oh oh I want to try the camera
though it has a variable aperture camera
how the crap did they pull that off oh
oh no way you can go all the way from
f1.4 to F4 basically that affects how
wide the hole is through which the
camera is shooting which affects the
depth of field and affects how much
light gets in so if I want to open it up
all the way I can get real bokeh like
not fake AI bokeh like real B on my shot
that is super cool I can close it all
the way and I can make sure that
basically everything in my shot is in
Focus okay let's go back to let's go
back to auto mode though not the best
I've seen not terrible pretty sharp
actually 50 megapixels yeah you can
count every one of them you can actually
read the brand of our tripod on the
Huawei can barely make it out on the
iPhone pretty wild
hey man look at that look at it like
stretch out more that is so cool dude I
want one of these so
bad wow that's some big sound boys one
speaker here one speaker
here they're pretty muddy but given the
space constraints I'm still very
impressed I'm also impressed by how
little the folds are bothering me once
I've actually got content on the screen
you can see as I move it around and
catch the light you'll catch a glimpse
of them once in a while especially when
it's directly reflected towards your
eyes but overall pretty good at most of
the angles that you would actually care
about even though it does have an older
processor in it they've got a
5600 mAh battery in here that'll help a
lot you'll probably get a day out of it
all right let's put on the case this
little flappy guard thing kind of gets
in the way when you go from Bold to
trifold but apparently it's there cuz
people were concerned about the
unprotected screen here and like this
way it it's right there when you're
holding it so I guess that's something
oh yeah I was going to try out the stand
oh yeah that could work there we go
okay oh yeah oh yeah okay she's stable
she's stable she's
stabilized oh yeah there we go no
problem bud I mean look you laugh laugh
all you want but this was an engineering
challenge that someone at wuwei had to
solve and they did a pretty pretty okay
job oh not bad not bad
nope a little inconsistent oh ah it'll
be better without the case I think so
much better nope it failed I think it
comes down to when I enrolled it it was
kind of wonky because I had the case on
I would definitely recommend enrolling
with the case not on I want one so bad
but there are multiple deal breakers
here even if it did support North
American bands which it may VAR well
there's no Google services on here which
doesn't mean oh yeah well just go get
the Play Store and add Google surface no
they won't run on it not unless you like
I don't know rooe it somehow but then
you're going to lose a lot of the
optimizations that Huawei has made to
Harmony OS you literally cannot put the
Play Store on here and you can't run
Google apps like Google Maps for example
wait Google Maps works ah I see the
rotation bug pretty brutal and even
though we have it set to English right
now there are many aspects of the device
that remain Chinese only there's no IP
rating so you drop this thing in the
drink it is dead and setting up an
account in Canada was extremely
difficult because Huawei devices are
aband in the country over security
concerns finally the S SOC and Camera
are well actually I thought the camera
seemed pretty solid but the so is very
last gen estimated to be about on par
with a Snapdragon 888 which came out in
2020 I really want one though and I want
you to subscribe to Short Circuit thanks
again to dbrand for making it possible
for us to get our hands on this thing I
uh was not expecting it to blow my mind
this effectively you can go check out
debrand products for other devices maybe
their cases or skins or uh accessories
for your PlayStation console you can
check them out
atl.com is that the vanity URL these
days
Yeah ironic that it's called a vanity
URL